Hello again!
In this video, we are going to look at the packaged task.
In the last video we spoke about asynchronous
programming and that may have reminded you of futures,
and futures are very much connected with asynchronous
programming.
So this is the first example in which we are going to use futures with asynchronous programming.
The packaged task class really bundles together everything you need to run a thread
and to get a return
from it, so it is a higher level of abstraction than using threads directly.
The packaged task will associate a function with a promise object, so this is a bit like the producer
function in the producer-consumer model we had earlier.
We had a producer function which takes a promise as argument.
The packaged task represents an asynchronous operation.
A packaged task object is callable.
When we invoke it, the associated function is run and the return value from the function is stored
in the promise.
So this is rather like the producer function, which is run in a thread and the return value is stored
We can also obtain the future which is associated with the promise inside the packaged task,
and
then we can call get() on that future
and that will return the value from the function.
The packaged_task class is templated.
It is in the  header.
The parameter for the packaged test is - well, more or less - the signature
of the function.
If we have a function which takes a string by const reference and double and returns an int,
the template
parameter would be int, open bracket then const reference to string, comma double, close bracket.
The promise associated with that packaged task also has a parameter
and that will be the return type
of the function.
So that will be set up by the packaged task.
When we create an instance of packaged_task, we pass it a callable object.
And that will be the equivalent of the producer function with the promise.
When we create a packaged task, nothing will actually happen.
By default, the thread will not be run until
the packaged task is started.
It is possible to start a packaged task directly,
but normally we would create a thread instance which has
the packaged task as its argument.
The packaged task will be passed by move and that will cause the
packaged task function to run in its own thread.
The packaged task has ownership of the callable object and the promise,
so it can be moved but not copied.
So let's have a look at some code.
So we are creating a packaged task. The associated function will take two ints and return another int.
The instance is called ptask. We give it the function as argument.
We are using a lambda expression
which will add two arguments and return their sum.
We call get_future() on the packaged task to get the future,
which will be associated with the
promise inside the task.
And then we create a thread.
We move the packaged_task instance into it, and then we give the arguments
to the function as the arguments to the threat.
So this is going to create a new thread which will call this lambda function,
and it will pass it the
arguments, six and seven.
And then this will return the sum in the promise,
and then we can call get on the future associated with
that promise.
And that will give us the answer.
So let's try this out... six plus seven is 13.
So the result is obtained by calling get() on this future.
This future is associated with a promise.
The promise is associated with the packaged task that runs this function.
And then we start up a thread which runs that function with the arguments six and seven.
Then we call the get on the future and the future will wait.
In this case, the function will return instantly.
So we get the results instantly.
The advantages of using a packaged task are that we do not have to write lots of boilerplate with promises
and so on.
Another useful property is that we can create a container with packaged task objects which will store all
these threads which are waiting to start,
and then when we are ready, we can go through the container
and start the threads up.
If we tried to do that with thread objects, the threads would start running as soon as the object is created,
so we would have a container full of threads that are already running, which might not necessarily be what
we wanted.
The packaged task is useful for managing threads.
We can arrange things so that each task can be run
on a particular thread.
We can write a thread scheduler, which will run threads in a certain order,
and we can create a thread
pool which consists of threads which are waiting for work to arrive.
And we are going to be looking at thread pools later on in the course.
However, if you just want to run a task on a new thread and get its results,
there is an easier alternative
which we will look at in the next video.
OK, so that's it for this video.
I'll see you next time.
But meanwhile, keep coding!